/*! \mainpage RPM 5 Manual

This manual contains documentation for developers and vendors alike. For the
first group, the Core API (in C) and additional information on language
bindings are where to start reading. Please note that if you don't want to use
the C API but some higher-level language, you'll nevertheless need to have
knowledge of the C interna of RPM 5 since the language bindings provide only a
thin wrapper over the core API.

Furthermore, for the second group, this manual offers insight on how to build
packages along with a macro/scriptlet reference and a gentle introduction to
packaging.

\section intro_core_api Core API

The busiest part of RPM is probably the \ref rpmts. Generally, a TS depicts a
change of state. The general abstraction for RPM5 is not the "package", but a
state, which is basically how a system looks from RPM's point of view at a
given time. The Transaction Set is the sum of all state changes. Which often
means installing or erasing software from one's computer. RPMTS also provides
a link into RPM's database and allows for key checking and, more important,
dependency checking. As such, it is also needed when buildig packages.

A transaction set consists of zero or more \ref rpmte "Transaction Elements".
The RPMTE API can give you all sorts of information from an element, beginning
from its name, version, release and epoch to its position in the transaction
set.

For dependency processing, one uses functions provided by \ref rpmds. While
normally one does not have to fiddle with the dependency set, it provides
useful methods around dependency processing a programmer could use once in a
while. Most notably, of course, it allows parsing of epoch-version-release
strings, putting them into a container and comparing containers, i.e. to find
out which version is newer given two.

\section intro_bindings Bindings APIs

RPM 5 currently brings bindings for the following higher-level languages:

- JavaScript,
- Python,
- Perl,
- \ref rb_c "Ruby",
- Lua, and
- TCL;

with the first one now being the "most offical" binding for RPM 5. The code is
mostly written in C: The goal of any binding shippend with RPM's sources is
not to establish some sort of higher-level access to RPM itself, and none of
them introduces dialectal ideosyncrasies immanent to the corresponding
scripting language. RPM's binding code provides only a thin access layer to
the C API.

Every binded function should have at least one unit test associated with it.
These tests are written using the unit testing functionality of the
higher-level language.

The documentation of the bindings code is sparse and mostly provides
references to the C API that is being wrapped. If needed, some hints are
provided regarding the particular language's quirks in correspandance with the
specific RPM function.

\section intro_vendor_docs Vendor Documentation

*/
